# Java-Hotel-Booking-System
A hotel booking system with additional GUI using Java and JavaFX

User interaction 
Upon launching the program, users will be shown with a main menu that allows users to choose between three buttons which are Display all the rooms, book the room and unbook a room.  No stages are created but instead scenes will be changed for the user to see different pages without making new windows. This will help making it less messy and more user friendly.

Display Room
When a user presses display room, there will be a change in the scene which allows the user to view the displayRoom page which shows the available and non available rooms of the different rooms which are Ocean Room, Medieval Room and Forest Room. This allows the users to view this page without the need to open up a new window. Within the displayRooms page there is a table which initially will show the Ocean Rooms, and in that table there is the room id, room type and availability. Buttons are shown beneath the table to show the other different rooms as well. For example if you click on the medieval room, the table will switch on and show the medieval rooms. A stackpane is used to stack the three tables and the button will show which of the tables will be visible. A back button is used to go back to the main menu or the start page

Booking a room and unbooking
When the user clicks on the book room button, he is presented with a text field and label which will ask the user to input the room he wishes to book. Once the user enters the room id, they can click on the button and a message will pop up depending on the what they entered. Within the system, when the user click on the confirm button, the view will retrieve what is written on the text field using getRoomID() and call the bookRoomID method from the controller. The controller receive the request from the view and call the bookRoom method from the model. The room model will see whether the room matches any of the ID and if its available. If it is, the room availability will be set to not available and the controller will receive the result from the model and pass it to the view. The view will then display a success message. The message creates a new stage which will then be a new window that popped up. If the result return as false because of invalid roomID or the room is already not available, a failure message. The unbooking button is essentially just the same as booking as it works the same way but vice versa.
